Annual Reflections

2024 - completed majority of Data Science BSc. Challanging year overall ton of new concepts regardless of them being foundational.
Mathematics was most challanging purely because have to relearn basic rules and principles, mental arithmitic and thinking mathematically
Stastitics was the most enjoyable for me and but not as challanging as mathematics. Appling concepts to real work made mental mind amps and memory so muuch eaiser
Python Programming was enjoyed its fairly simple but can be challanging very quickly and was eaiser to remember the basics when comparted to SQL but much harder to master. Was mostly eager to see its practical uses in Data Science and analytics and ML
So i played acround with quantitavive analytical like central tendancy and spread. methods in python and quikcly reaslised the power of jupyter, python libraries for import such as nump and scipy. 
Learned MySQL basics. Enjoyed it alot powerful and easy to understand. Aim to expand knowledge for more advanced queries
Incorperated and began getting familiar with Kaggle, Github and the Medium into workflow. Still have yet to seee the power of github as a version control and collaboration tool
Study year or Study time was not recorded fully due to many inconsistencies with day to day life
Towards the end of the year from October progress started picking up and logged roughly 500 hours from September - December 2024.
Most of which was mapping study plans schedules, testing routines and adapting to new technologies such and github, jupyter notebooks, mysql ect.
As an amater self thought investor I aimed to use my investments to fund life: as a student and full time optimist I also hoped this would allowing for massive study hours of over 3000 recorded hours a year It was a great challange and very risky
I made great progress in researching finance and implementing realword finincial practice theories I created. 

Keytake aways I realised coding alike most aspects of data science for me is looking at a recipie in a cookbook. You can read about a recipie but this doesnt not translate 
accuratky to the real world when it comes to actually putting it into practice. Always until you try it the recipie is harder than it seems.
Evenutally you fine tune the process, addding new parts to become more efficint at solving problems. 

YEAR 2025 
- Target selft study hours are aim for 3000 hrs (recorded using clockify) 
- 1200 hours Pure/Applied Mathmatics / University Maths work
- 600 hours Statistics and Data Analytics (Uni work recap)
- 200 hours C++ Modern C++ for Absolute Beginners: A Friendly Introduction to C++ Programming Language and C++11 to C++20 Standards(Complete the book)
- 200 hours Python Pyhton for absolute beginners (Complete the book) 
- 50 Hours SQL (Complete the book)
- 50 hours R language (Complete Basics)
- 200 hours Learning outcomes revisited questions and activities from IT and Stats modules.
- 200 hours Understanding Basics of Finance, Financial Markets, Business Finance, and Portfolio Managementand Quantitative Finance 

YEAR 2026
1000 hours Analysting data (Uni_2025 october -2026 october)
1000 hours Mathmatical methods (Uni_2025 october - 2026 october)
100 hours Python for Data Analysis (Complete the book)
100 hours Effective Modern C++: 42 Specific Ways to Improve Your Use of C++11 and C++14 (complete the book)
100 hours R language (Complete Book)

1000 hours Computability, Algorithims and Data Structures (Uni_2025 - October 2026) Fluent Python: Clear, Concise, and Effective Programming (Complete the book)
1000 hours Practical Modern Statistics (Uni_2025 - October 2026) Practical Statistics for Data Scientists, 2e: 50+ Essential Concepts Using R and Python 50+ Essential Concepts Using R and Python (Complete the book)

50 hour projects Application of Data Science in Finance with basic projects. 
