STATISTICS EXAM ROOM 

 - INTRODUCTION
In the exam room (ER) Here we test your skills and knowledge old and new. Mixture of practical and theoretical. This is designed in a way to constantly add new topics, update and revisite old ones
Some answers are written on ipad as writing out a question and explaining thoughts help me commmit to a concept, or definition to memory
My methond was to study a block and attempt to answer the question. Revisit them days later and answer them again is will determin is I understand or am I just parroting my recent reads. 
My goal is to indentify weak areas and imporve overtime for example i expect to see short definiton paragraphs with more detailed explaination as I become more adept


Questions

 - STATISTICS INTRO QUIZ:

Define data
Define a sample
Define a population (in respects to statictics)
Describe variance in your own words.
What is a discrete variable? Provide an example.
What is an ordinal variable? Provide an example.
Explain the difference between a categorical variable and an ordinal variable.
What is a discrete variable? Provide an example.
What is an continous variable? Provide an example.
What is a independant variable? Provide an example.
What is an dependant variable? Provide an example.
Explain the difference between a independant variable and an dependant variable.
Explain is the general relatiosnhip between independant and dependant variables and give an example
Name explain in your own words 4 statistical measures. Central tendancy, Spread, Frequency, Position


 - STATISTICS EXPLAINED:

In your own words, what is statistics and the general goal of statistics?
What is a population in statistics?
What is meant by descriptive statistics?
Explain quantitative analysis and the 2 branches. Inferential and Destriptive statistics
What are the sub categories of quantitative analytics?
What is mean by the term inference
what is inferential statistics?
Explain confidence in relation to inferential statistics
Give a brief description of hypothesis testing and an example of how you would write a hypothetical question in statistics


 - DATA SAMPLING:

An example of good samples from a population, samples should be? 
An example of bad samples from a population, samples NOT should be? 
Explain why these exsamples are good and why they are bad practices for sampling


- ODDS AND PROBABILITY:

Define the tems Odds
Define the term Probabilits
Define the term Correlation
Define the term Causation
What is meant by a lurking variable
Explain the relationship and any issues in refrence to Causation, Correlation to lurking variables
Define contidional probability and it is statistically expressed in bayes theorm P = ()
Write down bayes theory formula and explain how it work with an example.
What is bionomial probability give and example how can it be used so determine the probability of an event(s)?
What are permutatuons and why is it used?

- CENTRAL TENDANCY:

Explain what is meant by central tendancy
What is central tendency and what are the 3 most basic methods are used to measure?
Explain use those three methods to calculate central tendancy for this data set [2, 4, 4, 4, 5, 5, 7, 9]
Appraisal..what are 2 the benifits and 2 down side for each measure?
Reasearch or If already know how is the weighted mean calulated and what is the formula? Write it down


- MEASURES OF SPREAD:

Explain what is meant by measures of spread
Name two measures of spread. Explain what they are
How are the 2 named measures of spread calculated write the method or formulas
What is the range of this dataset? [2, 4, 4, 4, 5, 5, 7, 9]
What is the standard deviation of this dataset [2, 4, 4, 4, 5, 5, 7, 9]
Define variance and how it is calcualted write down the formula used to calculate variance
Defiene the emperical rule explain in refrence to 3 sigma rule
Explain what the normal distribution
Draw the normal distribution and lebel with with explainations


- MEASUIRES OF POSITION:

Explain hwat is meant by measures of position
Give a brief explainaton of Z-Score
How is z-score calculated and write out the formula expalining each componant
Define anomaly
How would statisticians define Outliers?
Give a brief explaination of T-Score
How is t-score calculated and write out the formula expalining each componant
Define degrees of freedone and why is used​
How do you interpret results from T-score of t table give a brief expalination
In what situation would you use the z-scores over the t-score and why?
What does the t-score tell an analyst that the z-score does not? 

My Answers 
